<h1>Art and Music during the Enlightenment </h1>
<br>
The Age of Enlightenment is a part of time which differs from other literary periods, and thus, so does the literature, art and the music compared all the other time periods.
The Age of Enlightenment produced many great musical artists that changed music forever and are still known to this day. So hopefully, these names will get you to feel a little more familiar with the musical period of the Age of Enlightenment.
Among these artists and composers we have the Austrian Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, born 1756 and deceased 1791, who is known for composing “Symphony No. 40” and also the German Ludwig van Beethoven, born 1770 and deceased 1827, who is known for creating “Symphony No. 5”.
The musical period that was present during the age of enlightenment is known as the classical period of music. The classical period is present in between the baroque and the romantic periods, meaning approximately between the years of 1740 and 1820.
Changes that occurred around this musical period is for example the replacement of the harpsichord, a piano of sorts that plucks a string with a small plectrum when a key is pressed down. The harpsichord was replaced by the piano that we know to this day, also known as the fortepiano. Instead of plucking the strings with a plectrum, like the harpsichord did, the fortepiano would hit the string with a hammer when the respective key was pressed down. This allowed the user of the piano to vary the strength at which the string was played as it wasn’t possible before when every string on the harpsichord was plucked with the same strength.
The main characteristics of classical music is that it was much lighter and had clearer texture in sound compared to the music of the baroque period. Classical music is also characterized as often being homophonic, meaning that a lot of classical music usually had two parts or layers in the song. One part, the harmony, was supposed to emphasize the other part, the melody, of the song.
