<h1> Culutre </h1>


During the age of enlightenment British culture was slowly evolving into culture we know today. Between 1660 and 1790 occurred many big changes in imperial England.
Thank to great british military that won almost very war they fought, culture could evolve in peace.
The biggest change was introduction of coffee. People starting to meet each other in coffee shop when they could drink coffee and talk about politics, even if they had not right to vote.
People could talk about politics and issues with it because of new law that implicated freedom of speech.

Freedom of speech changed much. Catholic faith started to be little more acceptable which had large impact on culture. One of the most famous authors of the age of enlightenment, Alexander Pope was catholic. That Catholic were no longer persecuted did not meant that they was fully acceptable.
Freedom of speech wasnt also for everyone. After successful war with Spain British colonial empire gained more influence in slave trade.

Through 17th and 18th century the most fashionable part of clothing was a wig. Most of wigs for men was covered with white powder. Sometimes white powder were additional colored. Pink, yellow and blue was most popular colors. Women often didn’t wore wigs. They used coiffure to make hair look longer. Other notable thing in fashion in this times was widening of dresses.

Even the "poor people" like farmers or working class started to care about fashion. Of course not everybody cared how they look but big part of society did.
For example Voltaire during his trip to England, mistook servants and country people for "people of fashion" because they were dressed in their "best clothes" because of a fair that took place in city he visited.
When it comes to food it wasn´t so good for ordinary people despite fact that agriculture become way mote efficient. Meat was still luxury and most people eat plains.
Other notable fact was growing popularity of tea in England.

Horse races was always a big part of English culture. In 18th century it finally become a professional sport. Similar thing happened with cricket. The first cricket club was formed in 1750 at Hambleton in Hamshire. Theaters was also important thing in British culture. Most towns had own that or assembly room. In assembly room people often played card and attended balls.

To summarize very briefly, during the age of enlightenment culture changed very slowly and the changes were minor



https://study.com/academy/lesson/society-and-culture-of-the-18th-century.html
