<h1>Religion and Superstition </h1>
The Age of Enlightenment refers to the 18th century in European philosophy and is often studied part of a larger age that also includes the age of rationality. The term refers to the evolution of a historical cultural movement called Enlightenment which defended rationality and its principles as means to establish the legal system of ethics and knowledge instead of religion. The pioneers of this movement considered their mission is to lead the world to development and modernization and to leave old religious and cultural traditions and irrational ideas within a period of time they called "The Dark Ages".

Those who think that the Age of Enlightenment would mean infidelity, atheism, or total abandonment of religion are mistaken. On the contrary, it basically meant the setting of a new conception of religion, and this perception setting differs from the fundamentalist perception that prevailed throughout the middle Ages.
Until the end of the 17th century the European people lived under the old fundamentalist system and anyone does not follow the principles of Orthodoxy would expose himself to strict punishment. But there were signs of change by the advent of the 18th century, or even shortly before and the threats against the old religion were increasing more and more.

Church authorities were no longer able to control the situation despite the support of the political authorities. Christian Orthodoxy started receding slowly in favour of the new ideas during the Age of Enlightenment. Both Christianity and the religious problem was the course of philosophy in the eighteenth century as a whole and the relationship with God was the basis of thought. All philosophers and thinkers were talking about this problem and trying to solve it.

They blame some fossilized versions of Christianity by philosophers did not mean that they were unbelievers or anti-religionists. Philosophers were condemning the conversion of Christianity to a tool used by clerics to exploit people and to broadcast paganism and superstition in their midst. For this reason, the politicians accused these philosophers of atheism. The battle was fiercely fought between the two parties, the fundamentalist party represented by the politicians and the rational party represented by the philosophers and thinkers.

The philosophy of enlightenment has given its confidence to the man and his potential and ability to change the reality and improve it for the better. This is how the philosophers of Enlightenment depicted a bright future in a world dominated by man, in which paradise is achieved on this earth and through this progress they were able to win the battle against fundamentalism.

Sources:
https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/01916599.2016.1203590
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Age_of_Enlightenment
http://www.newworldencyclopedia.org/entry/Age_of_Enlightenment
