<h1>
Technology and science
Did you know that the age of enlightenment is well known for all the science and technology? Well if you did not know that one of the many inventions of the age of enlightenment was the Watt steam engine, so this steam engine was the first practical and good engine that was developed by James Watt. So, this engine was the driving force to the industrial revolution. Why was this steam engine so good you may wonder well it was because of all the fuel it saved compared to all the previous steam engines before Watt´s engine was invented. Another great invention of this time was the steam locomotive which was created by George Stephenson. So, with the locomotive invented there was a new need for more railroads, so the locomotive could travel more distance. With more railroads you could use the locomotive to transport a larger number of items. So, having the locomotive railroads over the country helped with transportation and trade. More examples of inventions from the age of enlightenment are and these are just some of the many interesting inventions of this age.
•	1709 Bartolomeo Cristofori invents the piano.
•	1733 John Kay invents the flying shuttle.
•	1755 Alexander Cummings invents the flushing toilet.
The age of enlightenment was not only a time for inventions it was also a time for science. There were many great scientific people during this age which discovered many new things, one of them was Sir Isaac Newton, so who was Newton? Newton was a mathematician, astronomer and a scientist. So what Newton is famous for is the book he wrote called principia which contains Newton´s laws of motion, his law of universal gravitation and information on nearly all the essential concepts of physics. During the age of enlightenment, the solar system was truly discovered. Accurate calculations were made for orbits such as Halley’s comet and the first discovery of a planet since antiquity was made and it was Uranus. By using Newton´s theory of theory of the universal gravitation a calculation of the suns mass was done. Some other important people that discovered new things were.
•	Edmond Halley who discovered the proper motion of stars
•	Johannes Kepler with Kepler´s laws
•	Blaise Pascal contributed to mechanical calculators and the study about fluid and concept of pressure.

As you can see the age of enlightenment contributed to many technology and science aspects that we still have a use for today.
 Sources:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Age_of_Enlightenment#Science
https://www.bl.uk/restoration-18th-century-literature/articles/the-enlightenment
https://www.thoughtco.com/18th-century-timeline-1992474
http://www.newworldencyclopedia.org/entry/Age_of_Enlightenment#Science
</h1>
<h2>
  Religion and Superstition
The Age of Enlightenment refers to the 18th century in European philosophy and is often studied part of a larger age that also includes the age of rationality. The term refers to the evolution of a historical cultural movement called Enlightenment which defended rationality and its principles as means to establish the legal system of ethics and knowledge instead of religion. The pioneers of this movement considered their mission is to lead the world to development and modernization and to leave old religious and cultural traditions and irrational ideas within a period of time they called "The Dark Ages".

Those who think that the Age of Enlightenment would mean infidelity, atheism, or total abandonment of religion are mistaken. On the contrary, it basically meant the setting of a new conception of religion, and this perception setting differs from the fundamentalist perception that prevailed throughout the middle Ages.
Until the end of the 17th century the European people lived under the old fundamentalist system and anyone does not follow the principles of Orthodoxy would expose himself to strict punishment. But there were signs of change by the advent of the 18th century, or even shortly before and the threats against the old religion were increasing more and more.

Church authorities were no longer able to control the situation despite the support of the political authorities. Christian Orthodoxy started receding slowly in favour of the new ideas during the Age of Enlightenment. Both Christianity and the religious problem was the course of philosophy in the eighteenth century as a whole and the relationship with God was the basis of thought. All philosophers and thinkers were talking about this problem and trying to solve it.

They blame some fossilized versions of Christianity by philosophers did not mean that they were unbelievers or anti-religionists. Philosophers were condemning the conversion of Christianity to a tool used by clerics to exploit people and to broadcast paganism and superstition in their midst. For this reason, the politicians accused these philosophers of atheism. The battle was fiercely fought between the two parties, the fundamentalist party represented by the politicians and the rational party represented by the philosophers and thinkers.

The philosophy of enlightenment has given its confidence to the man and his potential and ability to change the reality and improve it for the better. This is how the philosophers of Enlightenment depicted a bright future in a world dominated by man, in which paradise is achieved on this earth and through this progress they were able to win the battle against fundamentalism.

Sources:
https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/01916599.2016.1203590
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Age_of_Enlightenment
http://www.newworldencyclopedia.org/entry/Age_of_Enlightenment
<<<<<<< HEAD
</h2>
=======
</h1>

<p>
  Culutre


During the age of enlightenment British culture was slowly evolving into culture we know today. Between 1660 and 1790 occurred many big changes in imperial England.
Thank to great british military that won almost very war they fought, culture could evolve in peace.
The biggest change was introduction of coffee. People starting to meet each other in coffee shop when they could drink coffee and talk about politics, even if they had not right to vote.
People could talk about politics and issues with it because of new law that implicated freedom of speech.

Freedom of speech changed much. Catholic faith started to be little more acceptable which had large impact on culture. One of the most famous authors of the age of enlightenment, Alexander Pope was catholic. That Catholic were no longer persecuted did not meant that they was fully acceptable.
Freedom of speech wasnt also for everyone. After successful war with Spain British colonial empire gained more influence in slave trade.

Through 17th and 18th century the most fashionable part of clothing was a wig. Most of wigs for men was covered with white powder. Sometimes white powder were additional colored. Pink, yellow and blue was most popular colors. Women often didn’t wore wigs. They used coiffure to make hair look longer. Other notable thing in fashion in this times was widening of dresses.

Even the "poor people" like farmers or working class started to care about fashion. Of course not everybody cared how they look but big part of society did.
For example Voltaire during his trip to England, mistook servants and country people for "people of fashion" because they were dressed in their "best clothes" because of a fair that took place in city he visited.
When it comes to food it wasn´t so good for ordinary people despite fact that agriculture become way mote efficient. Meat was still luxury and most people eat plains.
Other notable fact was growing popularity of tea in England.

Horse races was always a big part of English culture. In 18th century it finally become a professional sport. Similar thing happened with cricket. The first cricket club was formed in 1750 at Hambleton in Hamshire. Theaters was also important thing in British culture. Most towns had own that or assembly room. In assembly room people often played card and attended balls.

To summarize very briefly, during the age of enlightenment culture changed very slowly and the changes were minor



https://study.com/academy/lesson/society-and-culture-of-the-18th-century.html
<p>

<p>
Women in the Enlightenment were very overlooked and there is not a lot of information to go on which is why it is debated. Women during the Enlightenment were not considered of equals to men, and much of their work and effort was suppressed because no one respected them.
The Enlightenment had many benefits such as to advance ideals of liberty, progress, and tolerance. Women were also given free speech which made it possible for them to discuss and set new goals, take part in political and social equality, and debate about religion.
England and France gave women much more freedom than the rest of Europe, the role of women in the Enlightenment were mostly for people in middle and upper class families because they had access to things like money to join societies and get an education to participate in debate which lower class women did not have. That makes it so that the women in the Enlightenment era could only be represented by a small amount of women who had privileges that most women didn’t.
There was very little incentive for change in these traditional gender roles during the early modern period. But during the Enlightenment, philosophers and writers in the Enlightenment started having ideas based on Science and Reality instead of depending on religion to have all the answers which helped change the traditional gender roles but it also went against the majority of people in the society.
There were many philosophers and writers who played a very important role in that era for example.
•	John Locke
•	David Hume
•	Adam Smith
•	Nicolas de Condorcet
•	and Jean-Jacques Rousseau
One of the most important women during that era was Alphra Behn because she was the first woman in Britain who supported herself by writing which was very hard since she was neglected in anthologies. She was also very important because she was unique, unafraid of expressing herself as an independent woman.
Before the Enlightenment era, men were considered superior to women. The rights of women were stripped away from them to help the men. The quality of the women’s education was very bad compared to the men. People thought that education was good for the society but Science was not for women.
Sources:
Streams in Literary History by Carina Ernst and Anna Linde
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Women_in_the_Enlightenment

</p>
>>>>>>> 113c3567d87ee2cb87d4d9066cef5a57eed7f14c
